So let's see what this IP sic is.
IP 16 for IP security and it encrypts data at least tree meaning the IP layer and then we have underneath
IP tech we have four sub protocols because IP sic uses these sub protocols to perform its task.
We will in the next life see a graphical illustration of how this works.
But first we will go through them.
So the first protocol we have is ISP encapsulation security payload.
This is the protocol that encrypts the content meaning the data that we have with a symmetric algorithm.
This means that both the client and the server will have the same algorithm so that what is used to
encrypt the data can also be used to decrypt the data because you cannot just encrypted on your side.
And then just hope that the server somehow managed to figure out what whatever you encrypted it with
the need to be a correlation between them and you need to exchange some information for this to work.
But USP is the encryption part.
Then we have HP.
Often the case in header this is a header that is added on to our data package which have a checksum
in it.
In order for our server or ourself when receiving RECEIVING PACKAGES again to check up and secure that
no one have tamper with this data because if they have then the checksum and the hash of this of indication
header will simply not match.
And we know that someone has been trying to manipulate this data and we either know that our encryption
or private network has been broken or some something has gone run wrong to do away from our point A
to Point B.
Then we have the IP come which is the IP payload compression.
This is where our payload meaning our data and our authentication header is getting compressed Saturdays.
It is of a smaller size before we send it because the less data size that we have the faster it is and
the less bandwidth we use.
So it is very important that we can compress it as much as possible before we actually send it.
And then we have the last protocol which is the IEEE Internet key exchange and that is the protocol
that negotiate this shared secret between us and the receiver.
So as I said in the ISP the encapsulating security payload we need to negotiate some she had secret
in order for us to be able to encrypted in one end and for the receiver to decrypt the other.
So we need to have some common knowledge in order for this to work.
So this is basically the force of protocol to IP sic users.
So let's see how this works.
So the first thing that we have is the part one we need to negotiate a shared secret or key before we
can start doing this so that we have an understanding of what it is used to encrypt and what is needed
to decrypt once that is in place we can encrypt the data with ISP.
So for example we have a package right here with the black square.
We have data then we will encrypted with this green layer right here.
So now this entire data block is encrypted in the next part.
We will at this of indication here.
So we will add it to the data package which is encrypted and therefore we will add a new encrypted layer
around this entire package to around the header and around the data because then the header is encrypted
as well.
And then there will be a minor header to this encrypted package with the receivers information because
we need to detail where this is to be sent to.
So this is when we are encrypting our data on one end and then the receiver is getting the package the
first thing that he is going to do is remove the other encryption layer.
So he removed this blue box right here.
Then he will check the header see if everything is in order has the data been timber red.
And then it will be removed.
So we would take out the header and then at last he will decrypt the data.
So he will encrypt the screen box right here and remove it and then he is capable of reading the exact
same data that we started off by sending right here.
So this is basically how VPN protocols and the different set protocols is used to do this entire virtual
private work over a public network.
But we need one more protocol and that is the ISC KMP protocol.
So the Internet Security Association and key management protocol.
It's a very long name.
And if you're really into this VPN stuff and you need to go beyond the basic which is this is all about
then I highly recommend you to do some reading of the details of these different protocols because there's
a lot of more into them than just what I have listed right here.
But this is the basics.
So this protocol is actually used to establish the tunnel.
And that is what do this that exchange of keys and provide the tools needed for us to have this tunnel
before we can start to use their L2 GP protocol and IP sic on top of that.
So this is basically how VPN from client to server over our public network works and how it is getting
encrypted using several sub protocols.